All right.
So now that we're going to go to an advanced part, basically we are going to see how we can read the
file.
So we're going to give an access to our external systems, which is the file systems to the large language
model via model Context Protocol.
So Model Context Protocol is going to go and access your local file systems.
And that's going to be exposed by the tools like how we did in our earlier sections of this course.
And then we are going to see how that can be fused with our server.
Right.
So we'll see how that can be done.
So for that I'm going to write a simple tool.
I'm going to say maybe for file system dot or file system reader whatever.
I don't know what is the name that I can come up with, but I'm just going to give whatever just came
up to my mind right now.
I'm going to give that over here, and I'm going to start writing the code I'm going to because I'm
working with the the file system.
We need to have the OS, which is the operating system, and then the pathlib to work with the path
class.
And then I'm also going to have the MCP server, Her, uh, which is this one?
And the fast MCP, of course.
And this is going to be this class.
Right.
And then, uh, we're going to work with the fast MCP.
So basically I'm going to create a name for the fast MCP server, which is going to be this one.
And then we're going to start writing the Toolings over here.
So the first thing which I'm going to do is I could I could see that the I is already writing code for
me, which is amazing, but I'm going to just write a code over here.
I'm going to say read file.
Right.
So I'm going to give the file name which is going to be an input.
And over here I'm just going to say string.
Uh, and this is basically going to be uh, read a file from the document, uh, or document or any
given directory.
Right.
That's what this thing, this thing is going to do for me.
Pretty cool.
Uh, once we have this, then I'm going to start writing the actual logic for reading the file.
So this is going to be the same logic that you can write in the Python where you're going to read the
file.
So see that this is the logic which this AI is already writing for me.
So basically you need to have a file path.
And then you can work from there.
And because we are going to be working with, uh, some of the.
Already configured directory, because we can't give the entire machine, uh, as the access.
We can actually, uh, configure a specific directory where this MCP server can work with.
So we can.
Probably say a base directory.
And over here I'm just going to give the base directory some access.
Like some path over here.
So I'm going to say get env.
So I'm going to get the environment variable.
Over here and I'm going to say file uh reader directory or whatever.
Something like that.
Right.
So this is the directory which I wanted the MCP server to work with.
If there is no such directory.
Then probably you can, uh, instead of you throwing me an error, I can just, like, probably just,
you know.
Default to a documents directory or whatever.
Right.
So this is something I wanted to give.
So this is the base directory.
I'm going to pass it as an environment variable within my configuration over here in the cloud Desktop's
configuration.
So this will restrict the MCP server to access only specific directories.
Right.
So once we have this I'm then going to say okay file path over here.
And I'm going to say is equal to base directory and the file name.
This is going to be the file that is going to be reading through right.
And I'm also going to say if not if the file is does not exist in the file path, then resolve it and
starts with the string of the base directory dot resolve.
Basically, I'm just trying to see how effectively I can get the the path there.
Right.
And then I'm going to say if none of things are really working, then I'm going to just say an error
here saying the access is denied or something like that.
So access denied.
And it's an invalid path.
Something like that.
Right.
So that's going to be the error that I'm going to be throwing over here.
So if I find that particular file.
So I'm just going to say get the content.
So I'm going to say file path dot read text if it is a text file.
And then I'm going to say encoding is equal to UTF of eight which is the standard text format.
And then I'm going to return the file information.
Probably I'm just going to do a bit of formatting over here.
So I'm going to say file and the file name slash n and then slash n of the content which I'm reading
through from the file.
Just this one right.
I'm putting everything in the try catch block so that even if there is any exception, it is going to
be catching that for me.
And I'm going to say because this is the exception, which is going to be cards I'm going to accept
as E and I'm going to return Turn that maybe error reading the file or something like that.
So if error reading the given file, whatever.
Cool.
So that's the first tool that I have built that is the uh, the tool which is going to read the file
for me.
And the next one I'm going to write is going to be, uh, listing the file.
So I'm not really going to write that code because obviously it's something I have already done before.
So I'm going to go and paste that code over here.
So it's going to be the listing, the file.
So this is the reading the file.
This is going to be the listing the files.
Uh and it's going to list the files for me.
It's going to say list files in the directory.
I'm going to go through all the files in the directory and get those details for me over here.
So we have got two tools.
And we have the server being defined.
The last operation which we have to do is we are going to run the MCP server, which I'm going to do
it in our next lecture.
But if you have already seen all the earlier videos, then you know what to do.
See the the I is already telling me what I have to do, so just keep writing it.
Try to run this yourself and see how it goes.
If not, we're going to be doing that in our next lecture.